# PNW Quizzing General Assembly Meeting Minutes

- **Date:** Saturday, September 14, 2024
- **Time:** 12:48 PM to 1:14 PM
- **Location:** Lighthouse Christian Center, Puyallup
- **Qualified Groups in attendance:**
    - Lighthouse
    - Madras
    - Gig Harbor
    - Kitsap
    - Shoreline
    - EBC
    - Elk Plain
- **Declared Qualified Groups not in attendance:**
    - KVBC
    - Post Falls
    - Salem
    - Medford
- **Secretary**: Jenny Zecher

The following was transcribed from [a scan of the source notes](/downloads/2024-09-19_ga_meeting_minutes.pdf).

## Minutes

Motion brought forward by Amanda McKee (Lighthouse) and seconded by Kristine Delamarter (Madras) to ratify the new Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws for the organization of Pacific Northwest Bible Quizzing. No amendments. Motion approved unanimously.

Discussion regarding "Qualified Group Leaders" Appendix A.

- Participating members are current organizations. Sign-up sheet was presented in meeting to form the official Qualified Group Leaders for the purpose of formation of the corporation Pacific Northwest Bible Quizzing.
- Qualified Group Leaders are: Amanda McKee, Kristen Thompson, Kristine Delamarter, Michele Grieve, and J. Gryphon Shafer.

Discussion regarding the "Asset and Governance Board." 2 to 3 volunteers will oversee assets and governance, including setting fees, budgeting and finances, scholarships, etc. and also set policies. Time commitment expeced would be once or twice a year meeting. The service term is one season (2024/2025).

Assets and Governance Board:

- Andrew Borden
- Kristine Delamarter
- Sharalyn Shafer

Discussion regarding the need for background checks concerning host home hosts for distant meets. 2 adult coverage when students are present. Topic for Governance Board to discuss. Concerns were brought forward regarding the cost involved of having background checks completed for all host home families. PNW Quizzing historically has not required background checks for host home families.

- Reviewed season schedule. Next meet is on October 19 in Madras.
- March meet is tenative in Post Falls, Idaho.
- GWI (Great West Invitational) - Alberta. Andrew will be lead for the meet.
- Championships - May 2 through 4, 2025. Double K Camp in Easton. Andrew will be lead for the meet.
- IOC (International Open Championships) - June 2025 at Multnomah Bible Camp in Portland.
