# Asset and Governance Board Meeting Minutes

- **Date:** Wednesday, September 25, 2024
- **Time:** 6:30 PM to 7:08 PM
- **Location:** Zoom
- **Attendance:**
    - Andrew Borden
    - Kristine Delamarter
    - Sharalyn Shafer *(Secretary for the meeting)*

## Minutes

### Agenda item #1

Sharalyn to finish the financials by the end of day Sunday, 9/29 and email to Andrew and Kristine so price setting for the 2024-2025 year was tabled until we have full data to make a decision.

### Agenda item #2

Sharalyn explained the situation with a team organization's request for scholarship to cover their District Championship fees from the past season. Sharalyn read the emailed letter to Andrew and Kristine. A unanimous vote passed to cover the fees. Kristine stated she and Scott will donate to help cover the fees if PNW does not have enough funds.

### Agenda item #3

Requiring background checks for hosts at host churches was discussed. After discussing multiple ramifications and possible ways to do this, it was unanimously decided that this should be left up to the host churches and PNW would not require this as it could prevent churches from hosting and be cost prohibitive to the churches and PNW. If a church has this requirement for their quizzers, they will be directed to the host churches to discuss or they will need to provide their own chaperones according to their rules and book hotel rooms instead.

### Agenda item #4

Awards for the 2024-2025 season were discussed. Andrew is taking this over for Kristine who was previously doing these. The following was unanimously decided:

- Ribbons for the top 10 individuals for each meet
- Medals for the top 3 teams for each meet
- Rookie of the meet/Rookie of the year - award to be decided - Andrew is looking into options that are not plaques as they are growing to be fairly expensive and kids seem unmotivated by them. One idea was maybe t-shirts or something like that.

Previously awards were ordered from Big John's Trophies in Spanaway, but now that Kristine's parents have moved, this is likely not the most convenient choice any longer.

Andrew is researching options.

### Agenda item #5

A separate bank account for PNW Quizzing was discussed and unanimously approved by the board.
