docs/about_us/FAQ.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

What is Bible Quizzing?
: Christian & Missionary Alliance Bible Quizzing is a scripture memory
and competition program for teens in grades 6-12. Each year a portion of the
New Testament is designated as the "material" which constitutes the competition
material. This material follows an 8-year rotation. The competition takes place
in the form of "meets" where all quizzers compete against each other in "quiz"
format.

What are the benefits of Bible Quizzing?
: You gain many great things from quizzing:

- The Word of God in your heart and on your mind. You'd be surprised what you
  remember 10 years later!
- Worship and teaching time at each meet.
- Lifelong friends!
- Increased aptitude and confidence in learning, reading, reading aloud, public
  speaking, memorizing, studying, time management, executing in pressure
situations, and team work.
- The opportunity to excel while quizzing in the program and the opportunity to
  give back once your quizzing eligibility is exhausted.
- The opportunity to invite and be a witness and friend to non-believing friends.

What is the PNW Bible Quizzing Program like?
: There are approximately 24 districts with Quizzing Programs across
the US and Canada in the C&MA Quizzing Program. The PNW District is comprised
of teams from Washington and Oregon, typically around 15 churches and 125
quizzers. PNW prides itself on providing an environment that teaches and
nurtures young and experienced quizzers, is encouraging and edifying to all,
and that fosters a high level of competition.

Who is eligible to quiz?
: 6th-12th graders are eligible for quizzing, with a few rare
exceptions.

What is the yearly format?
: The PNW Quizzing Calendar is as follows: Introductory Scramble Meet
(for fun) in September, 3-5 District Meets between October and March, Great
West Invitational in April, District Championships in April/May. All teams
attend District Meets. Qualifying Individuals attend Great West Invitational.
Qualifying teams attend District Championships.

Isn't Bible Quizzing a large time commitment?
: Yes, Bible Quizzing is a large time commitment. However, besides the
5 district meets, the time commitment can vary from quizzer to quizzer. The
very best quizzers will likely be putting in a minimum of 3+ hours of studying
each week, while the less-serious or "social" quizzers may put in that much in
a month. PNW District has no studying requirement whatsoever. Some churches
choose to institute a memorization requirement or have quizzers set goals at
the beginning of the year, but this is handled on a church-by-church basis.
Coaches always encourage quizzers to complete school homework before quizzing
study, so as not to raise the ire of parents! In general, you seldom hear
someone who wishes they spent less time engaged in quizzing; the sentiment is
always they wish they had spent more!

You want me to memorize how many verses?
: You'd be surprised what you're capable of with a little determination
and discipline, alongside friends who encourage you and compete with you. Start
by memorizing just a few, and if you get those down, forge forward for more.

What are Key Verses?
: Every year a list of verses are designated as Key Verses. These
verses are considered to have significant spiritual value and whose meaning can
stand on their own. They are meant to encourage quizzers to memorize these
verses first.

How does Individual Scoring work?
: Detailed team and individual scoring information can be found in the
rule book.

What is the Scramble Meet?
: The Scramble Meet is a fun meet that "scrambles" kids up into teams.
They meet tons of new friends outside their church! The meet doesn't count for
anything during the year. It also doesn't have the normal registration costs.
We split the kids into a Senior division and a Junior division. All this is
meant to be a low-pressure introduction to quizzing. Ask anyone who's been to
one--they absolutely love this meet!

What is the Great West Invitational?
: The Great West Invitational quiz meet takes place in April, between
the last District Meet and District Championships. PNW has historically taken
the top 20-25 quizzers as determined by year-to-date average post the last
District Meet, forming 5 teams. Quizzers that qualify are not obligated to
attend. The meet is also attended by similarly elite teams from Canada. This
meet is a great way for the best quizzers to compete against fantastic
competition and meet other quizzers from other districts. The costs for each
quizzer are partly subsidized by PNW.

What is Internationals?
: Internationals is the highest level of quizzing competition in C&MA
Bible Quizzing. PNW has historically sent one team of 5, comprised of the top 5
quizzers based on season ending average. Quizzers that qualify are not
obligated to attend. Internationals is a breathtaking display of mastery of the
material by over 100 quizzers. Internationals takes place over 6 days in June
at various locations around the country. The costs for each quizzer are partly
subsidized by the district.

What does it take to start a Bible Quizzing program at my church?
: The main thing a new quizzing program needs is a dedicated coach;
someone who can run practices, attract teens to the program, and handle the
logistics. This coach is rarely a youth pastor. As cost is a large issue, go
here for a tool that closely estimates expected costs. Additional questions can
be submitted via the Contact Us form. More often than not, the church does not
need to financially support the bible quiz program.

I know nothing about Bible Quizzing. How could I possibly start a program?
: There are many experienced officials and coaches who are happy to
help you get started! Very little quizzing-specific knowledge is required, just
a passion to get teens in the Word and an ability to manage a program. The
details will come with time and everyone you meet will be happy to answer
questions.

How can I volunteer in Bible Quizzing?
: There are many ways! First off, if your church is involved with Bible
Quizzing, we need 6 meet hosts per year. As some churches are too small to
host, this puts the emphasis on the remaining churches. Being willing to be a
host is greatly appreciated!  Also, at meets we need scorekeepers. Leadership
roles also do open up from time to time and when they do, they are a huge need.
Being active in your home church, whether it's as a coach, helping bring new
quizzers to the program, volunteering your van for transportation, or many
other ways, all help Bible Quizzing to be what it is, an opportunity to change
the lives of teens through God's Word.

What if I have questions?
: If you know you want to start a quizzing program, email the District
Coordinator. All other questions can come to me (Scott Peterson), and I'll
either answer them or direct your question to someone who can.

Commit message:

Fixing missing age/maturity policy updates

docs/about_us/FAQ.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

What is Bible Quizzing?
: Christian & Missionary Alliance Bible Quizzing is a scripture memory and
competition program for youth. Each year a portion of the New Testament is
designated as the "material" which constitutes the competition material. This
material follows an 8-year rotation. The competition takes place in the form of
"meets" where all quizzers compete against each other in "quiz" format.

What are the benefits of Bible Quizzing?
: You gain many great things from quizzing:

- The Word of God in your heart and on your mind. You'd be surprised what you
  remember 10 years later!
- Worship and teaching time at each meet.
- Lifelong friends!
- Increased aptitude and confidence in learning, reading, reading aloud, public
  speaking, memorizing, studying, time management, executing in pressure
situations, and team work.
- The opportunity to excel while quizzing in the program and the opportunity to
  give back once your quizzing eligibility is exhausted.
- The opportunity to invite and be a witness and friend to non-believing friends.

Who is eligible to quiz?
: Any youth who will be 18 or younger at any point during the quiz season and
has adequately to their local ministry organization's head coach demonstrated
maturity sufficient to be a quizzer may participate.

What is the yearly format?
: The PNW Quizzing Calendar is as follows: Introductory Scramble Meet
(for fun) in September, 3-5 District Meets between October and March, Great
West Invitational in April, District Championships in April/May. All teams
attend District Meets. Qualifying Individuals attend Great West Invitational.
Qualifying teams attend District Championships.

Isn't Bible Quizzing a large time commitment?
: Yes, Bible Quizzing is a large time commitment. However, besides the
5 district meets, the time commitment can vary from quizzer to quizzer. The
very best quizzers will likely be putting in a minimum of 3+ hours of studying
each week, while the less-serious or "social" quizzers may put in that much in
a month. PNW District has no studying requirement whatsoever. Some churches
choose to institute a memorization requirement or have quizzers set goals at
the beginning of the year, but this is handled on a church-by-church basis.
Coaches always encourage quizzers to complete school homework before quizzing
study, so as not to raise the ire of parents! In general, you seldom hear
someone who wishes they spent less time engaged in quizzing; the sentiment is
always they wish they had spent more!

You want me to memorize how many verses?
: You'd be surprised what you're capable of with a little determination
and discipline, alongside friends who encourage you and compete with you. Start
by memorizing just a few, and if you get those down, forge forward for more.

What are Key Verses?
: Every year a list of verses are designated as Key Verses. These
verses are considered to have significant spiritual value and whose meaning can
stand on their own. They are meant to encourage quizzers to memorize these
verses first.

How does Individual Scoring work?
: Detailed team and individual scoring information can be found in the
rule book.

What is the Scramble Meet?
: The Scramble Meet is a fun meet that "scrambles" kids up into teams.
They meet tons of new friends outside their church! The meet doesn't count for
anything during the year. It also doesn't have the normal registration costs.
We split the kids into a Senior division and a Junior division. All this is
meant to be a low-pressure introduction to quizzing. Ask anyone who's been to
one--they absolutely love this meet!

What is the Great West Invitational?
: The Great West Invitational quiz meet takes place in April, between
the last District Meet and District Championships. PNW has historically taken
the top 20-25 quizzers as determined by year-to-date average post the last
District Meet, forming 5 teams. Quizzers that qualify are not obligated to
attend. The meet is also attended by similarly elite teams from Canada. This
meet is a great way for the best quizzers to compete against fantastic
competition and meet other quizzers from other districts. The costs for each
quizzer are partly subsidized by PNW.

What is Internationals?
: Internationals is the highest level of quizzing competition in C&MA
Bible Quizzing. PNW has historically sent one team of 5, comprised of the top 5
quizzers based on season ending average. Quizzers that qualify are not
obligated to attend. Internationals is a breathtaking display of mastery of the
material by over 100 quizzers. Internationals takes place over 6 days in June
at various locations around the country. The costs for each quizzer are partly
subsidized by the district.

What does it take to start a Bible Quizzing program at my church?
: The main thing a new quizzing program needs is a dedicated coach;
someone who can run practices, attract teens to the program, and handle the
logistics. This coach is rarely a youth pastor. As cost is a large issue, go
here for a tool that closely estimates expected costs. Additional questions can
be submitted via the Contact Us form. More often than not, the church does not
need to financially support the bible quiz program.

I know nothing about Bible Quizzing. How could I possibly start a program?
: There are many experienced officials and coaches who are happy to
help you get started! Very little quizzing-specific knowledge is required, just
a passion to get teens in the Word and an ability to manage a program. The
details will come with time and everyone you meet will be happy to answer
questions.

How can I volunteer in Bible Quizzing?
: There are many ways! First off, if your church is involved with Bible
Quizzing, we need 6 meet hosts per year. As some churches are too small to
host, this puts the emphasis on the remaining churches. Being willing to be a
host is greatly appreciated!  Also, at meets we need scorekeepers. Leadership
roles also do open up from time to time and when they do, they are a huge need.
Being active in your home church, whether it's as a coach, helping bring new
quizzers to the program, volunteering your van for transportation, or many
other ways, all help Bible Quizzing to be what it is, an opportunity to change
the lives of teens through God's Word.

What if I have questions?
: If you know you want to start a quizzing program, email the District
Coordinator. All other questions can come to me (Scott Peterson), and I'll
either answer them or direct your question to someone who can.
