# Testimonials

Bible Quizzing is a ministry that provides profound positive impact to those who
participate, at all levels. We love to receive testimonials from current and
former quizzers, coaches, leaders, quizmasters, scorekeepers, siblings, parents,
and anyone else who wants to communicate a specific experience, lesson, or
outcome attributed to Bible Quizzing.

The following are testimonials we've received so far:

- "Bible Quizzing provided me with the perfect motivation to spend time
  memorizing God's Word. There are times today when a verse or chapter will
  flash to mind in a time of need. Bible Quizzing provided me with many of my
  closest friends - and many wonderful memories!"

- "One of the major benefits that I found when I was in Bible Quizzing was that,
  as I read and memorized Scripture, it replaced a lot of the negativity inside
  me. The best way to rid the body of sin is to replace it with the Word of God.
  That sounds a little simplistic, but it is truth. Ooh, and memorizing anything
  is really easy now, because of the habits I learned in quizzing. I am so
  grateful that I have the Word of God in my head and heart, even when I don't
  realize it's there."

- "Bible Quizzing is the best teen equipping ministry that I have ever seen or
  experienced. I am grateful to God for the opportunity to memorize His
  precious Word in this competitive and supportive culture. Through Bible
  Quizzing, my relationship with God grew deeper; and I was better prepared to
  further His Kingdom and glorify Him for the Powerful, Frightening, Loving,
  and Amazing God that He is."

- "Bible Quizzing provided me with many hot lunches and it got me out of
  school early on several Fridays every year!"

- "Bible Quizzing has made a huge impact in my life. Not just with the friends
  I've made but it provided the incentive to memorize God's word. I'm able to
  look back on my Bible Quizzing days now and it continues to motivate me to
  spend time with Him and His word, knowing what I was and am capable of
  learning. God still uses those verses in situations today. Sometimes I have no
  idea where it comes from but He uncovers one hidden in my heart that I had
  long forgotten. And in a way that only God can do, it’s exactly what I need to
  be reminded of at that time."

- "Bible Quizzing prompted me to hide the Word of the Lord in my heart. It has
  served me well as I have continued with theological education as well as in
  daily life. I can't tell you how many times a verse I learned in my years
  quizzing will pop into my brain to bring me a much needed word. I am grateful
  for the experience and how it shaped my high school years. I would not be who
  I am or where I am today if it hadn't been for Bible Quizzing."

- "In times of crisis or personal need, the verses internalized during my long
  hours of Bible Quizzing study have provided comfort and assurance in ways I
  never expected as a teen. What's more, this early scriptural study has given
  me invaluable knowledge for fruitful theological reflection as an adult. That
  the skill of memorization itself has also benefited me in professional and
  academic spheres is additional proof that Bible Quizzing has wide-reaching,
  life-altering influences upon its participants."

- "To sum up, Bible Quizzing saved me in a time where I didn't trust organized
  religion, and I found my future wife through it!"

- "There's nothing like having a conversation with someone and having a verse
  pop into your head and thinking, 'Where did that even come from? How do I
  know that verse? Oh... quizzing!'' It's pretty encouraging; it motivates me to
  read and study even more. Not to mention it really sharpened my brain and
  made it easier to study for other things as well."

## Essay

The Bible Quizzing program had a profound impact on my life as a high school
student and continues to influence my life today.

My mother was terminally ill all through high school and passed away fall of my
senior year. There was plenty of opportunity for hopelessness, anger, cynicism,
and resentment to creep into my life through this experience. I suffered from
none of these, however, because early freshman year the Holy Spirit began to
fortify my spirit through memorization of scripture. Throughout the difficulty
of watching my mother’s health deteriorate I was equipped with the wonderful
promises of God that I could look to, and lean on for comfort. There was a
specific time when I was memorizing 1-2 Corinthians, when my mom came to a place
of hopelessness and despair, despite her trust in God. I immediately was
impressed with the words of Paul in 2 Cor. 4:16-18  “Therefore we do not lose
heart. Though outwardly we are wasting away, inwardly we are being renewed day
by day. For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal
glory that far outweighs them all. So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but
what is unseen, for what is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal.

Not only was that an encouragement to my mom, but also it has been a source of
encouragement to me since she passed away. Though outwardly she was truly
wasting away, inwardly she was being renewed, and eventually she was called into
the eternal glory that significantly outweighs all she suffered.

Since high school I haven’t had the discipline to do much scripture
memorization, but I still reap the benefits that I got from the quizzing
program. When you memorize you don’t just have the ability to recall words, you
have to first understand the ideas behind those words—you’ve gotta know what it
means for it to stick. So now, though I don’t have everything down word for word
like when I was competing, I do know what that Bible says. This kind of
knowledge is invaluable for a young adult who is constantly being challenged in
their faith, and struggling to make their faith their own. That foundation was
strongly built for me through the quizzing program, so I didn’t go into those
years unsure of what it was I believed in the first place--I was able to build
on solid rock instead of sand.

I am now getting ready to become a mother for the first time, and what a
blessing it is to have the word of God hidden in my heart. This experience has
truly revealed in a powerful way that I have absolutely no control over the
future. It’s tested the level of trust I have in myself and in my God. But
thanks to quizzing I know right away that I can "...approach the throne of grace
with confidence, so that [I] may receive mercy and find grace to help [me] in
[my] time of need." Heb. 4:16

There really is no end to the examples I can give of how Bible Quizzing has
benefited me. I am so grateful for the opportunity to have participated and I
encourage any student to get involved and experience it for themselves. Besides
being spiritually beneficial, it’s also a ton of fun!
