# PNW Quizzing Executive Board Meeting Agenda and Minutes

- **Date:** Sunday, July 28, 2019
- **Time:** 3:00 PM
- **Means:** Google Hangout

## Agenda

- Opening
    - Call to order
    - Validation of quorum
    - Appointment of the Secretary
    - Adopt the agenda
- Reports
    - District Coordinator
        - Delegations *(as required by the bylaws)*:
            - Meet direction: Jeremy
            - Meet logistics: Kristine
            - Meet master of ceremonies: Gryphon for Scramble; Jon VS for Meet 1
            - Quiz equipment and supplies: Sarah
            - Statistics management: Scott
        - Recruiting
            - Moses Lake: No this season; probably yes next season
            - Walla Walla: Maybe this season, but unlikely
            - Naches: Unsure of interest
            - Sequim: Unlikely, but I'm still trying
        - GWI
            - Extremely likely to be at Crow's Nest
            - Date TBD
            - Glenn promised questions won't be quite as awful
        - IBQ
            - At least 5 districts are interested in a small adult quizzing league
    - Treasurer
        - Books and accounts status
            - Transferred to Sharalyn
            - However, contextual information missing
            - Working to fill this in
            - Expect comprehensive report at next Board meeting
        - 3 churches still owe for last season's District Championships
        - IBQ bill and/or reimbursements?
        - Next year's fee structure *(the flat fee)* to be determined by Board of Directors, advised by the Treasurer, which will be forthcoming
    - IBQ Head Coach
    - Rules Committee Chair
- Governing documents changes
    - SOPs

        > "Have served as a quizzing official (quizmaster, answer judge, scorekeeper, or statistician) in PNW for at least the previous 2 consecutive quiz seasons"

    - Any other changes to any of the documents?
- This season's schedule
    - EBC confirmed but needed to move their weekend up by 1 week
    - Status of Dallas for Meet 3
    - Hosting options for Meet 5
- Rulebook and PNW-specific rules *(ultimately up to Rules Committee, but we can provide feedback)*
    - Do we adopt the newest IBQ rulebook fully?
    - What PNW-specific rules do we want to keep or add?
- Meet Registration *(new web site system)*
- Meet equipment status?
- Meet officials status
    - Gryphon and Jeremy collaborating
    - QMs likely: Cutty, Gryphon, Kendra, Micah *(but would like at least 2 more)*
    - Andrew might be an AJ *(would like at least 3 more)*
    - Scorekeepers: high-pressure recruitment campaign...?
- Quiz questions status?
- Scramble meet details
    - Scott will set up teams
    - Jeremy will set up schedule?
    - Gryphon coordinating workshops
- Any other business and/or motions
- Next meeting date and location
- Review action items for next meeting
- Adjournment

## Minutes

- Called to order at 3:02 PM
- All 5 members of Board of Directors present
- Kristine volunteered to be Secretary for this meeting
- Assignments
    - Meet director – Jeremy
    - Meet logistics – Kristine
    - Master of ceremonies – Gryphon for Scramble; will ask Jon VS for Meet 1
    - Quiz equipment and supplies – Sarah
    - Master of bibs – Sharalyn
    - Statistics – Scott; paper statistics remain gold standard, CBQZ scoring as backup
- Recruiting – Moses Lake likely for next season, Walla Walla maybe, Naches unsure, Sequim still trying
- Great West – likely at Crowsnest, dates unsure, questions may not be as awful
- Adult quizzing – possibly try this year, do not want it to distract from youth quizzing
- Treasurer
    - Still working on details of account
    - Fee likely this year will be $100 per quizzer, maybe $20 per quizzer per meet
    - Still very inexpensive compared to other kid sports and activities
- IBQ – Great job kids! Was a success
- Rules committee – voted in motion to change requirement of District Coordinator to include 2 years of experience as coach
- Schedule – move up October meet by one week, website already updated, Dallas will host meet 5, still looking for host for meet 3
- Rulebook
    - Will discuss question distribution further with rules committee
    - Benefit to changing to international rules regarding question distribution
    - Would encourage quizzers who only memorize key verses to have more opportunity to jump
    - It is a hardship for quizzers who learn all the material may not jump as fast on FTV type questions
    - Internationals makes more sense to have more FTV due to not having a specific list
- Meet registration – web based system this year, active and live, easy to learn, will have firm 2 week registration deadline
- Meet equipment – have all new equipment in all 4 rooms, one set of benches do not work
- Quizmasters – Cutty, Gryphon, Kendra, Micah, would like to recruit more quizmasters
- Answer judges – possibly Andrew Borden
- Scorekeepers – would like to recruit more and have their job be more important, calling fouls, participating in rulings on tougher questions
- Quiz Question status – Jeremy has set, Kristine willing to share
- Scramble meet – Scott will set up teams, Jeremy to set up schedule, Gryphon to set up workshops
- Meeting closed at 4:18 PM

## Notes

### This Season's Board of Directors

- Gryphon Shafer, PNWTI *(Chair by virtue of being District Coordinator)*
- Jeremy Swingle, Trinitas *(Vice-Chair by virtue of being Rules Commmittee Chair)*
- Sharalyn Shafer, PNWTI *(Treasurer)*
- Kristine Delamarter, Madras
- Sarah Davis, Dallas Alliance Church

## Action Items

The following are the action items coming out of the meeting:

- Rule Committee *(Jeremy)*
    - Determine exact set of rules for next season
    - Draft complete "PNW exceptions/alterations" to IBQ rulebook +
    - Establish an "official PNW officials" questions set in CBQZ ++
    - Establish a "PNW practice" questions set in CBQZ ++
    - Setup schedule for Scramble ++
    - Query and confirm QMs/AJs/SKs for next season with help from Gryphon
- Equipment and Supplies *(Sarah)*
    - Verify functionality of all quizzing equipment ++
- Meet Logistics and IBQ Head Coach *(Kristine)*
    - Get to Sharalyn any/all IBQ expenses
    - Purchase awards as needed for Scramble
    - Assist in recruiting SKs for Scramble
- Treasurer and Master of Bibs *(Sharalyn)*
    - Accounting details squared away
    - Proposed next season's budget +
    - Exact fee structure proposal +
    - Decontaminate bibs
- District Coordinator *(Gryphon)*
    - Change SOP requirement of District Coordinator to include 2 years of experience as coach
    - Ensure web site is fully up-to-date with meet schedule
    - Work with ABC hosts about Scramble start/stop times and facilities
    - Send registration reminders to all coaches/churches
    - Help Jeremy query and confirm QMs/AJs/SKs for next season
    - Setup workshops for Scramble ++
    - Coordinate with Scott about Scramble team and stats planning

*+ To be sent to Board by email for ratification at least 2 weeks prior to Scramble<br>
++ To be completed at least 2 weeks prior to Scramble*
