# PNW Quizzing General Assembly Meeting Minutes

- **Date:** Saturday, September 25, 2021
- **Time:** 12:51 PM to 1:33 PM
- **Location:** Alliance Bible Church

## Organizational Represention

The following organizatons were represented at the meeting:

- ABC
- Madras
- Trinitas
- EBC
- Lighthouse

Gig Harbor was absent from the meet but expressed they are planning to
participate this season. NSA  was represented but expressed they are unlikely to
participate this season.

## Board of Directors

The following slate was elected to be this season's Board of Directors:

- Gryphon Shafer, PNWTI
- Jeremy Swingle, Trinitas
- Sharalyn Shafer, PNWTI
- Kristine Delamarter, Madras
- Andrew Borden, Alliance Bible Church

The vote was unanimous.

## District Coordinator

The bylaws require the District Coordinator to be ratified each season. Gryphon
Shafer was nominated and voted in for another term as District Coordinator.

## Summary of Discussions

The assembly discussed the current plan for hosting meets this season. They
discussed the pros and cons of the plan. They also discussed some of the
governing dynamics behind the decision-making process and the heuristics for
making these decisions.

Financially, this plan will put a burden on PNW Quizzing. The assembly voted to
raise participation fees to $50 per Ultrameet™ but keep the fees at $20 for any
normal, local district meets and District Championships. The assembly also
agreed to solicit tax-deductible donations from their churches and communities
to help cover extra costs.

It was also discussed that it would be best to take only 1 team of 5 to
Internationals this season.

At the moment, the Great West Invitational (GWI) meet details are ambiguous. CMD
expressed a strong desire that GWI be in-person. News and updates on GWI will be
shared when they become available.

## District Size

Here are the following district size statistics:

- ABC = 12 quizzers across 3 teams
- Trinitas = 9 quizzers across 3 teams
- EBC = 10 quizzers across 3 teams
- Lighthouse = 23 quizzers across 6 teams
- Madras = 5 quizzers across 2 teams
- Gig Harbor = 4 quizzers in 1 team

So that's 63 quizzers across 18 teams.
