# PNW Quizzing General Assembly Meeting Minutes

- **Date:** Saturday, April 30, 2022
- **Time:** 12:40 PM to 1:10 PM
- **Location:** Double K Christian Camp and Retreat Center, Easton

The general assembly of the PNW Quizzing ministry organizations meet at lunch on
Saturday at the District Championships meet. The organizations represented were:

- Alliance Bible Church
- Eastridge Baptist Church
- Gig Harbor
- Lighthouse
- Madras

Gryphon Shafer led the meeting.

## New Board for 2022-2023 Season

Gryphon discussed the idea that given our expected size next
season (likely 5 organizations but possibly up to 7 organizations), it may be wise
to have the board consist of 1 person from each organization.
There was general agreement around this proposal.

The following motion was passed almost unanimously (Gryphon was the lone nay vote):

**The new board for 2022-2023 season shall consist of: Gryphon Shafer as
District Coordinator and Board Chair, Andrew Borden as Rules Committee Chair
and Board Vice-Chair, Sharalyn Shafer as Treasurer, and Kristine Delamarter to
represent Madras.**

The general assembly will consider who from each organization will represent
that organization. Madras with Kristine and ABC (under the new organization's
name) with Andrew will already represented. So the expectation is there would be
at least 3 additional board members to vote in.

This will require a change to the bylaws, which currently set the board size at
5 total.

Also, Gryphon suggested that someone on the board should be appointed
"Assistant Treasurer" or "Vice Treasurer", so they could be trained how how the
financial aspects work and would then be able to be a second pair of eyes on
our financial records. The hope is that 1 of the 3 new to-be-appointed members
would volunteer for this role.

## 2022-2023 Season Decisions

Next season, we'll be going back to our regular schedule of:

- Pre-Season
    - <i>Classic</i> Scramble™: September
- Regular Season
    - District Meet 1: October
    - District Meet 2: November
    - District Meet 3: January
    - District Meet 4: February
    - District Meet 5: March
- Post-Season
    - Great West Invitational (GWI): April
    - District Championships (DC): May
    - International Bible Quizzing Championships (IBQ): July

The pre-season meet will remain a Saturday-only meet. There was some discussion
outside of the general assembly meeting about keeping it outdoors, weather
permitting.

Then the regular season meets would move to be Saturday-only for quizzing, but
have optional fellowship/fun opportunities Friday afternoon/evening and
optionally attending Sunday morning worship service together. The idea thus
being that while quizzing itself would only happen on Saturday, teams could each
decide to what degree if any they participate in any Friday or Sunday activity.

Then for District Championships, the general consensus seemed to be we'd try to
host again at Double K with the same Friday, Saturday, Sunday format, providing
significant opportunities for quizzers to gather socially.
