# PNW Quizzing General Assembly Meeting Minutes

- **Date:** Thursday, August 10, 2023
- **Time:** 7:00 PM to 8:30 PM
- **Location:** Zoom

The general assembly of the PNW Quizzing ministry organizations meet over Zoom.
The organizations represented were:

- Eastridge Baptist Church: Kristen
- Gig Harbor: Jenny, Jacquee
- Kent Vietnamese Bible Church: Phong, Andrew
- Lighthouse: Annie
- Madras: Kristine
- Medford: Alexander
- North Seattle: Cutty
- Northern Idaho: Jeremy
- Tacoma Christian Academy: David, Paul

## CBQ system adoption

David moved that PNW Quizzing adopt the CBQ system. Annie seconded.
Unanimous vote in favor of the motion.

See also: [CBQ Rule Book](https://cbqz.org/rules/CBQ_rule_book.md)

## Club lists ratification

Paul moved that we ratify the Club lists (100 and 250) that was previously sent
to the General Assembly. Jenny seconded. Unanimous vote in favor of the motion.

See also: [2023-2024 Club Lists](/2023-2024_season/club_lists.md)

## Season schedule and hosting locations confirmation

The General Assembly worked through the season schedule and resolved who would
be and would likely be hosts for the various meets. The General Assembly also
agreed to the provisional dates.

See also: [2023-2024 Season Schedule](/2023-2024_season/season_schedule.md)

## Memorization schedule

At the previous meeting, it was resolved to reorder the GEPC season to EPCG for
better alignment with calendar breaks. However, given that there's a possibility
we could have a combined us-and-Nazarene-Quizzing meet, we thought it would be
better to have our memorization schedules more align. But some quizzers may have
already started memorizing Ephesians.

The General Assembly resolved to reorder the books to EGPC to both support an
optional merged meet with Nazarene and honor the memorization work already done
by some quizzers.

See also: [2023-2024 Study Schedule](/2023-2024_season/study_schedule.md)

## Great West Invitational

The General Assembly agreed that for Great West, we will invite quizzers by
year-to-date average, but we will now require quizzers to be eligible by their
track of their memorization and assurance they've memorize at least 50% of the
material at the synonymous quality level or better. Coaches will have the
final say as to whether a quizzers of theirs has fulfilled this requirement.

## Board appointments

The PNW Quizzing Board of Directors for the GEPC season are:

- Andrew
- Cutty
- Jacquee
- Paul
- Sharalyn, Treasurer
- Gryphon, District Coordinator
