docs/support_and_advice/officials/officials_checklist.md, before:

# Officials Checklists

The following are checklists for officials of various types based on the stage
of the meet.

## Prepare ahead of each meet...

### Meet Director

- Schedule, draw, and officials' room assignments
    - Include all details on the officials' version
    - Exclude from the coaches' version:
        - Quiz start times for all but the first quiz after a break
        - Officials' room assignments
- Scoresheets with team and quizzer names inserted
- Roster of registration data
- Google Chromecast device

All the above documents should be both printed for each room and included in the
shared Google Drive for all officials.

## Pack to bring to a meet...

### All Officials

- Laptop with wifi capability
- Extension cord
- If your power cord is 3-prong, ensure you have
  [a 3-prong to 2-prong converter](http://www.amazon.com/CableWholesale-Wholesale-Grounding-Converter-30W1-32200/dp/B000I96AUM)
- Network hotspot or cell phone network bridge *(if available)*
- Cell phone with camera *(if available)*
- Audio recording device  *(if available and you've decided not to use your laptop)*

### Meet Director

- Printer and blank paper
- Auxillary wifi networking system *(1 hotspot + 3 repeaters)*

## Setup up at the meet...

### All Officials

- Setup laptop and any other electronic equipment
    - Connect to a "Shafer Node" repeater *(and ask Meet Director for password)*
    - Prefer strongest node *(and ask Meet Director for signal strength recommendation)*
    - Prefer 5Ghz to 2.4Ghz if both options are available
- Open a copies of the:
    - [CMA Rulebook](/references_for_quizzing/CMA_rule_book.md)
    - [PNW Rulebook](/references_for_quizzing/PNW_rules.md)
- Verify you are synchronizing Google Drive correctly, or at least, that you can access the Google Drive
  shared folder for officials

### Meet Director

- Auxillary wifi networking system should **always** be setup and tested; assume primary wifi will fail
    - Locate best place for hotspot
    - Individually boot each repeater with hotspot nearby and test access points
    - Position hotspot in its best place

### Quizmaster

- In CBQZ:
    - Login
    - **Always** double-check on main page: quiz program, material set, questions set
    - Switch to Quiz Room
    - Set "Meet Name" to the form: "2019-2020 Meet 1" *(with specific values changed for the specific meet)*
    - Set "Room" to correct room
    - Ensure "Official Quiz" is checked
    - Verify "Question Types" setting is correct
    - Select chapter distribution and weighting of last chapter set

## Remember during the meet...

### Quizmaster

- In CBQZ, prior to each quiz:
    - Switch to Quiz Room
    - Verify "Room" set correctly
    - Verify "Quizmaster" set correctly
    - Ensure "Official Quiz" is checked
    - Set "Scoring and Teams/Quizzers" data
- At the close of each quiz: *Remember to click "Close"*

### Scorekeeper

- Prior to each quiz, ensure scoresheet is correct and fully ready
- When filling out scoresheets:
    - Fill in Team Name, Raw Points, and Team Points in the top right corner of the scoresheet
    - Fill in the Correct and Incorrect counts for each individual quizzer. Please do not write anything if
      the value should be zero (if a quizzer get 0 right and 0 wrong, you can leave their cells completely
      blank)
    - Fill in Quiz Number, Room Number, QM Name, SK Name
- At the close of each quiz, send a picture of the scoresheet to the Head Statistician by at least one of
  these means:
    - Email [stats@pnwquizzing.org](mailto:stats@pnwquizzing.org)
    - Facebook Message
    - Google Drive shared folder for officials
- Scoresheets stay in each room during the meet; they're brought to room 1 before the close of the meet

## Take care of at the close of the meet...

### Meet Director

- Collect all paper scoresheets for archival

Commit message:

Add details to officials checklist

docs/support_and_advice/officials/officials_checklist.md, after:

# Officials Checklists

The following are checklists for officials of various types based on the stage
of the meet.

## Prepare ahead of each meet...

### Meet Director

- Schedule, draw, and officials' room assignments
    - Include all details on the officials' version
    - Exclude from the coaches' version:
        - Quiz start times for all but the first quiz after a break
        - Officials' room assignments
- Scoresheets with team and quizzer names inserted
- Roster of registration data
- Google Chromecast device

All the above documents should be both printed for each room and included in the
shared Google Drive for all officials.

## Pack to bring to a meet...

### All Officials

- Laptop with wifi capability
- Extension cord
- If your power cord is 3-prong, ensure you have
  [a 3-prong to 2-prong converter](http://www.amazon.com/CableWholesale-Wholesale-Grounding-Converter-30W1-32200/dp/B000I96AUM)
- Network hotspot or cell phone network bridge *(if available)*
- Cell phone with camera *(if available)*
- Audio recording device  *(if available and you've decided not to use your laptop)*

### Meet Director

- Printer and blank paper
- Auxillary wifi networking system *(1 hotspot + 3 repeaters)*

## Setup up at the meet...

### All Officials

- Setup laptop and any other electronic equipment
    - Connect to a "Shafer Node" repeater *(and ask Meet Director for password)*
    - Prefer strongest node *(and ask Meet Director for signal strength recommendation)*
    - Prefer 5Ghz to 2.4Ghz if both options are available
- Open a copies of the:
    - [CMA Rulebook](/references_for_quizzing/CMA_rule_book.md)
    - [PNW Rulebook](/references_for_quizzing/PNW_rules.md)
- Verify you are synchronizing Google Drive correctly, or at least, that you can access the Google Drive
  shared folder for officials

### Meet Director

- Auxillary wifi networking system should **always** be setup and tested; assume primary wifi will fail
    - Locate best place for hotspot
    - Individually boot each repeater with hotspot nearby and test access points
    - Position hotspot in its best place

### Quizmaster

- In CBQZ:
    - Login
    - **Always** double-check on main page the following selections:
        - Quiz program: CMA Pacific Northwest
        - Material set: 2019-2020 CMA PNW Hebrews Peter
        - Questions set: 2019-2020 CMA PNW Hebrews Peter Officials Meet
    - Switch to Quiz Room
    - Set "Meet Name" to the form: "2019-2020 Meet 1" *(with specific values changed for the specific meet)*
    - Set "Room" to correct room
    - Ensure "Official Quiz" is checked
    - Verify "Question Types" setting is correct
        - The default setting is *probably* correct...
        - However, verify that it's correct before proceeding
    - Select chapter distribution and weighting of last chapter set
        - Ensure all chapters up through the current chapter are checked
        - Ensure that "Chapter Weighting" is set to the same number of chapters that were added to the material since the previous meet, and the weight is set at 50%

## Remember during the meet...

### Quizmaster

- In CBQZ, prior to each quiz:
    - Switch to Quiz Room
    - Verify "Room" set correctly
    - Verify "Quizmaster" set correctly
    - Ensure "Official Quiz" is checked
    - Set "Scoring and Teams/Quizzers" data
- At the close of each quiz: *Remember to click "Close"*

### Scorekeeper

- Prior to each quiz, ensure scoresheet is correct and fully ready
- When filling out scoresheets:
    - Fill in Team Name, Raw Points, and Team Points in the top right corner of the scoresheet
    - Fill in the Correct and Incorrect counts for each individual quizzer. Please do not write anything if
      the value should be zero (if a quizzer get 0 right and 0 wrong, you can leave their cells completely
      blank)
    - Fill in Quiz Number, Room Number, QM Name, SK Name
- At the close of each quiz, send a picture of the scoresheet to the Head Statistician by at least one of
  these means:
    - Email [stats@pnwquizzing.org](mailto:stats@pnwquizzing.org)
    - Facebook Message
    - Google Drive shared folder for officials
- Scoresheets stay in each room during the meet; they're brought to room 1 before the close of the meet

## Take care of at the close of the meet...

### Meet Director

- Collect all paper scoresheets for archival
