# Quizmastering

First, read through the [Resources and Checklists for Answer Judges and
Quizmasters](officials_resource_checklist.pdf) document. This covers software,
equipment, basic how-to's, troubleshooting, preferred terminology and more.

## Time

Quizmastering does not have to involve a serious time commitment, outside of
attending the meets. However, most quizmasters do devote a lot of their time.

## Questions

Write quiz questions in [CBQZ](http://cbqz.org/app).

I have found the way to get great questions is to write them yourself,
incorporate many other lists, and constantly seek feedback from other
experienced and trusted question writers. I continually find invalid or
substandard questions in my sets, even late in the year. That shows how
important it is to constantly review them. Using Microsoft Excel, I can check
for spelling, questions that start or end similarly (may be duplicates), super
long questions (want to avoid for INTs and MAs), super long questions (also want
to avoid for SITs and FT2Vs and QTs).

## During a Quiz

Quizmasters have a large amount of responsibility during a quiz meet. They must
keep quizzes moving, so that the entire meet stays on schedule. This requires
discipline by the quizmaster. They must rule quickly, consistently, and
decisively, to bring transparency and reduce potential contentions. The
quizmaster must be very familiar with the rules.

Quizmasters must be able to read at a consistent cadence on every single
question. Quizmasters must be able to stop reading very quickly after a quizzer
jumps. Timing is very important to the quizzer. The quizmaster must be able to
read all questions at a consistent pace, and stop reading consistently when a
jump is made. Consistent pace of reading includes more than just the question;
it includes the lead up and any pauses between phrases. Everything needs to be
equal and consistent.
